---
layout: post
title: "ML4H 2022 @ NeurIPs"
categories: [news]
---

Our paper <a href="https://proceedings.mlr.press/v193/gadd22a.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">mmVAE: multimorbidity clustering using Relaxed Bernoulli β-Variational Autoencoders</a> has been accepted at <a href="https://ml4h.cc/online_proceedings.html" target="_blank" rel="noopener">ML4H</a> and <a href="https://neurips.cc/Conferences/2022" target="_blank" rel="noopener">NeurIPs</a> 2022 in New Orleans in December.



<h3>Abstract</h3>

The prevalence of chronic disease multimorbidity is a significant and increasing challenge for health systems. In many cases, the occurrence of one chronic disease leads to the development of one or more other chronic conditions. This exerts a significant challenge in improving patient outcomes and is a growing challenge globally as average population age increases. Using electronic health record information to identify patterns of co-occurring conditions is seen as an unbiased means of understanding multimorbidity but most studies have adopted off-the-shelf algorithmic techniques that are not tailored for the application. We present a novel bespoke approach for multimorbidity clustering based on a highly customised version of a β
-variational autoencoder. We incorporate the use of minimum entropy clustering to identify sparse, low-dimensional factored representations that link at a feature-level to the observed patient-level multimorbidity profiles. We demonstrate how the approach can be used to explore complex structure in a population-scale health data sets by examining data from a UK population of nearly 300,000 women in pregnancy suffering from multimorbidity.

